Why did they pick variable resistance?
Well, it's because of the diminishing
range because you're going to contract
more tissue, be able to load more, but
ultimately, if you're using more glucose
in one experience
than you are in a weight training
experience, then you know for a fact
that this is a superior type of
exercise.
Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering, which
gives me a unique perspective beyond
what a lot of influencers will be giving
to you. Just, like I said, different
background. Today
I want to talk about something that I
don't think anybody's really looked
into, which is the history of variable
resistance. So, one of the guys on on my
team was like, "Hey, you know, have you
ever done like a like where did this all
come from? Like where like
Yeah, it it's sort of. Like we've talked
about Westside Barbell, and we've talked
about Arthur Jones and and what he did
with the Nautilus machines, but two
things I came across
in looking at the history, which I found
so interesting, and also something that
just completely reinforces the idea that
variable resistance is the ultimate way
to train. Really, no matter what your
goals are because you're just going to
be activating more muscle, stimulating
more muscle. Mike Mentzer, this is a
direct quote from Mike Mentzer
Variable Variable resistance, a
fundamental requirement for truly
scientific exercise.
Boom. Like
he got it. Now, he was talking about
Nautilus machines back in the day cuz
they they didn't have I don't even think
they had exercise bands back then, or if
they did, they were probably the rehab
kind that we used to see. Like when I
was when I was in high school, the only
banding you'd ever see was like
TheraBand, you know, you throw it around
the edge of a rack and do like outward
rotation or something like that. Uh so,
very lightweight, not not for strength
training. But, I think
Mike Mentzer was so smart in the fact
that he recognized
that engaging the muscle
to a greater or smaller degression, say,
engaging almost like loading the muscle
in each position
according to its capacity.
That's how variable resistance works.
So, he recognized that like instantly
that was super powerful. Now, here's
another piece of amazing evidence. I
came across a study about carbohydrate
feeding and how quickly the body could
evacuate
glucose from the musculature.
So, basically, how quickly can you get
worn out? Well, what exercise
do you think they picked for the maximum
wear out? They picked variable
resistance, of course. That's awesome,
but why did they pick variable
resistance? Well, it's because of the
diminishing range, because you're going
to contract more tissue, be able to load
more, but ultimately, if you're using
more glucose in one experience than you
are in a weight training experience,
then you know for a fact
that this is a superior type of
exercise. You know more load went
through that muscle in that single
experience than any weight training type
experience. Otherwise, they wouldn't be
using variable resistance to do this,
because the whole point of the exercise
whole point of the experiment was
get glucose out of muscle as quickly as
possible, and they wanted to look at
that. So, I found that very fascinating.
In case anybody's wondering, this is a
short video, so I'll give you some
something about my life. You You might
see Tiki man here.
This
is something that my fraternity brothers
and I have been stealing from each other
since even before I was born, 1964.
Somebody came back from a trip in Hawaii
and they brought that ugly thing and put
it on the mantle at the fraternity house
and it disappeared almost immediately,
ended up at some other guy's house. So,
that's how the tradition started.
Everybody's been stealing it from each
other
ever since then. I'm sure somebody's
going to steal it from me cuz I'll have
some friends over and it'll disappear,
but it's okay. Tiki might make an
appearance at some other point, but you
know, just just so you know what that
thing is. If you have any questions,
leave it in the comments and I'll see
you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights.
We've got the answer for you.